Readme.txt for Spatial Population Model (SPM)
============================================

The Spatial Population Model (SPM) is a generalised spatially explicit
age-structured population dynamics and movement model.

SPM can model population dynamics and movement parameters for an age-
structured population using a range of observations, including tagging,
relative abundance, and age frequency data. SPM implements an age-
structured population within an arbitrary shaped spatial structure, which
can have user defined categories (e.g., immature, mature, male, female,
etc.), and age range. Movement can be modelled as either adjacent cell
movements or global movements based on covariates.

See the SPM User Manual for more information.

License
=======

See the SPM User Manual for a copy of the software license (CPL v1.0).

Installation
============

Your can either

Use the Microsoft Windows installer for SPM. This copies the progam files
to the SPM install directory, creates icons in your start menu, and
modifies the system registry to,
(i)   Add to the the SPM install directory to the systems PATH
(ii)  Associate .spm files with the SPM icon and to open with Notepad.exe
(iii) Register the uninstall information required for Microsoft Windows
			to uninstall SPM.

Note that, depending on your system setup, you may need to reboot after
installing to re-initialise the system PATH.

Or

Manually copy the SPM executable to a location of your choice.

In both cases, only the SPM executable is required. But note that SPM is
a console program, and can only be used from the command line.

Removing SPM
============

To uninstall, use the Microsoft Windows uninstaller. This will remove any
installed files and registry entries automatically. To uninstall
manually, delete the files from your computer (typically stored in
c:\Program Files\SPM, but this depends on your choices when you installed
the program) and any program links in your Start menu.

If you have used the installer to install SPM and are uninstalling
manually, then you may also wish to modify your PATH to remove references
to the SPM directory and delete the following registry keys (if
required);

HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\.spm\
HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\SPM.textfile\
HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Uninstall\SPM\

Contact
=======

For more information about SPM, please read the SPM User Manual or
contact the authors.
